---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Performing WODs Technical Essay
date: 2021-02-02
labels:
  - Education
  - MIS
---
Before beginning this essay, I finished the Invoice1 Workout of the Day. It was a change of pace from the four BrowserHistory WODs that the class has been doing. As the title suggests, we were required to make webpage containing a table that acted as an invoice for a retail establishment. The webpage was meant to change dynamically and not include hardcode. Here is the link to what I ended up publishing https://github.com/vkashiwai/ITM352_S21_repo/tree/main/WODs/Invoice1

This was the first WOD that I had to do three times. At first, I had no idea where to start. I knew that I would have to use variables and reference them in my code, but I forgot one of the simplest things. That was including my comments in a script tag. That would have been obvious if I had read the instructions in further detail. Because I was stumped from the beginning, I ended up watching the screencast. I hadn’t realized that we could just copy the code from the table on the Invoice1 instructions like how it was done in the screencast. I thought I knew what I was doing and attempted the WOD a second time. I ended up stumbling around the subtotal and tax bit. However, I then realized later that it was because I had put “fix” instead of “fixed” for the decimal adjusting command. By the final attempt, I was tired of doing the same thing over again so I changed up the product name, quantities, and prices to reflect more of a sushi shop just for fun. 

My only preparation was what we were required to prepare prior to class time. I had done this in prior WODs and found success within two attempts but this was a little different. I know I had missed a some of the readings before this past Thursday’s class but I thought I had caught up. I was not sure why I didn’t understand where to start. There were some things that were done in the screencast that I didn’t understand but just did because it worked. I’ll be looking into why it worked after I finish this essay. 

I think I could be better prepared by making sure I have done all the readings for class. I’ll admit that I pay the most attention during the lecture-like screencasts and ending skimming the readings. Going forward, I’ll try to be more thorough in my readings and see how that affects my ability to complete the WODs independently. 
