---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: My Progress In Programming Report
date: 2021-05-14
labels:
  - Education
  - MIS
---
---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E6: Evaluation Guidelines and Class Retrospective BLOG
date: 2021-05-14
labels: 
  - Assingment3
---
Note: This blog post was written by Grant Misaki, some edits made by Victoria Kashiwai 
1.  Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)
  Our store is an online version of a Japanese convenience store including drinks and snacks. 
2. Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?
	Currently, there is an error when the invoice is printed and sent to the user email and has the name as undefined.  We are also missing a logout button. We will be fixing the shortcomings listed until the assignment is graded. 
3. Describe what you are most proud of about your system:
  I am most proud of our e-commerce concept. - Grant
  I am most proud of our registration form as we worked incredibly hard on it for Assignment 2. - Victoria 
4. Describe what you are least happy with your system:
	We are least happy with the design of our invoice page.
5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?
	This assignment required us to use sessions and cookies to remember users and to create  a shopping cart rather than going straight to invoice.
6. When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?
	We used Google when running into problems. We also contacted Professor Port for office hours and consulted some of our friends who had finished Assignment 3 already or taken the ITM352 in previous semesters. 
7. Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?
	I think that working together worked well in this assignment. - Grant
  We were able to consult our friends and that helped a lot. It also helped to have a second pair of eyes looking at the code. - Victoria 
8. Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?
	We think that when we each worked on different parts of the program, that did not work very well, becasue we ended up having to go back and see how other parts of the code worked. 
9. What did you learn from doing this assignment?
	I learned to ask for help and start on tedious projects early. - Grant 
  I learned to begin projects early so I can ask specific questions when asking for help. - Victoria 
10. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?
	We would probably start earlier and ask for help when I got stuck sooner.
11. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
  Thinking - 50% 
  Writing Code - 10%
  Testing and Debugging - 40%
12. Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)
  Almost all work was done equally because we worked on the code either on zoom call or in person (we know each other outside of the class)
  Victoria - 60%
    original Assignment 1 to be used in both Assignment 2 and Assignment 3 
    personalization of the website (stylesheets and product data) 
    lead the video 
    was responsible for uploading all files, blogs, and videos
  Grant - 40% 
    researching different code solutions 
    input the majority of the comments on each file 
    wrote the blog post
